1130 - Week 4 In Class 

- Review the readings about paragraphing 
	- stress editing and free writing
	- stress that coherence comes only with reflection 
	- drafting is not editing
		- drafting = quick writing, without thought of the whole in the early phases
			- primarily linear, no thought to how structures might change--working out of ideas
			- additive (adds content in linear fashion)
		- editing = reflection, looking at how the whole paper works together
			- jumps in anywhere, plays with form, structure
			- looks for coherence (language (words), topic (categories, things), examples)
			- often subtractive (eliminates unnecessary words, structures, etc., according to the whole)
	
	- Drafting and editing work together to produce the essay, like the iterative game design model, we cycle through stages. 
		- We set goal (to write for 5 minutes), then we develop rules (land on key words), then we play the prototype (draft again with key words in mind), then playtest (edit again, looking for coherence--does this work?), revise again in light of our goals (outcomes for the assignment (thesis), REPEAT
	
- Editing is not revision
	- Editing:
		- is on a sentence level, addressing problems with spelling, grammar, punctuation, or word choice.
		- is one-sided. The editor writes comments and corrections on the paper and returns the paper to the writer.
		- is hierarchical. An editor looks for "mistakes" and "fixes" them. An editor places value on writing (such as a grade).
		- focuses on the paper as a product.
	- Revising:
		- deals with the paper as a whole, considering strengths and weaknesses, arguments, focus and organization, support, and voice, as well as mechanical issues.
		- is dialogue-based. The purpose or revision is to ask questions, expanding ideas and challenging arguments which require discussion between the writer and the reader.
		- is non-hierarchical. Offering questions and making observations allow the writer and reader to hold separate and valid opinions. The purpose of discussion is to expand and clarify ideas rather than "correct" them.
		- focuses on the writer in the process of writing and increasing the writer's understanding of the paper's strengths and weaknesses.
		- clarifies and focuses the writer's arguments by defining terms, making concessions and counter-arguments, and using evidence. This may involve moving or removing entire paragraphs, extending or narrowing ideas, rewriting vague or confusing text, and adding to existing paragraphs. 

QUESTIONS?

THESIS EXERCISE (TIMED)

PARAGRAPH EXERCISE (TIMED)
	  
- Get them to do paragraph sprints (with Essay #1 in mind)
	- five minutes of free writing - no thinking, just do. 
	- then, with a partner, edit for ten minutes (trade after 5 minutes)
		- look for common things (words, mostly)
		- look for thesis-oriented sentences
		- eliminate fluff terms entirely; base sentence structure
	- five minutes of free writing - no thinking, just do.
	- then, with a partner, edit for ten minutes (trade after 5 minutes)
		- look for common things (words, mostly) with your previous free write
		- look for ideas cohering around central theme
		- eliminate fluff words entirely
	- take ten minutes, read both edited free writes and add words, sentences, in-between to make them cohere. 
		- what's missing that will join the two together?
		- how can I align the words so that it makes sense?
		- what ideas are being developed here that I might be able to use?

BRING DRAFT TO CLASS ON THURSDAY - THESIS AND MINIMUM FOUR PARAGRAPHS

DO RAG DOLL IF YOU ARE SHORT ON TIME


		

