Lecture for Starting Research (Week 5)

1. Give out Essay Questions and Review
2. Go over the Readings on Blackboard
	1. Argumentative Essays
	2. Argumentative Essay Example
3. Go over Prezi:
	1. Argument and Research (wrightd@dc / hip)
	2. Language, Audience, Author
4. Dismiss


Next Class

**Let's Talk About Your Essays**

- I will present essays on overhead and discuss
- In groups:
	- what are the 5 things you felt were the most difficult for you to understand about what you were being asked to do? 
	- what are five things that you will do to improve on your next essay

---

**Let's Talk About Essay #2**

- Frame this discussion around secondary source and their expectations:
	- what are you expectations for secondary sources?
	- what's different about the writing style?
	- what's different about how the content comes across?
	- how do these people account for their authority? 
- Review of peer review / "refereed"
		- what is peer review?
		- why does it matter? 
		- what are you doing with peer reviewed materials?
		- what exactly am I looking for?
			- what style?
			- what kind of writing?
			- what kind of information?

**Let's Talk and Think About Next Week**

You will need to find some original research for next week
 
- some strategies for how you will go about getting it:
		
- visit the online library catalogue--give yourself an hour or two
- visit the library on your own time--give yourself an hour or two
- follow the steps we went through tonight
- read widely, then narrow
- narrow your focus as much as possible without actually reading the entire article
- take notes
- make your works cited page as you go (use the export function in ASC)

---

***