1130 - Jan. 5, 2017 - Class One

#####1130: Academic Writing    
#####Lecture 1 - Jan. 5, 2017  

**PREP**

- Fire up the website, blackboard, and the class lead site, also google
- Hand out waitlist
- Hand out survey
- Hand out Course Outline
- Hand out Email sheet
- Hand out Prompt
- Hand out Prompt

----

Hand out Waitlist sign-in sheet. Please sign in **ONLY** if you are on the waitlist. Otherwise, nope.

1. Waitlist
	1. we are over-enrolled already - slim chance you will get in 
	2. you must continue to attend to keep your seat
	3. seat offers are sent out at midnight to the Email on file--check this!--you have 24 hours to accept. If you don't, you lose your place

Questions?

----

1. Introduce yourself
	* Teaching here for nearly ten years
	* PhD from McGill in Literature, Culture, and Technology
	* My main interests is fabrication in the humanities; or how we represent texts using technology

---

2. Course Outline Walkthrough
	* Schedule will follow after class settles
	* Emphasize legal
	* Emphasize timing and schedule
	* Emphasize essay expectations and writing requirements
	* Emphasize the reading load and expectations
	* I will not dictate or give precise indicators about how things should be done. We live in an Information Age, figure it out. 
	* Emphasize the formality of email communication. Tell me who you are and where I know you from. Give me a task or ask for something. No wondering. No what did we do last class. 
	* Office hours are open. This means you can come and see me during these times without appointment
	* No story policy. Just tell me what you need me to do; no stories

---

3. Blackboard walkthrough
	* Readings and Assignments (Course Content)
		* You'll get **all** your readings here, including some from the Library database
		* You'll need to get at this **BEFORE** the class starts
		* Readings are **DUE** on the day for which they are scheduled--stuff there now is due Monday 
		* **DO THE READING!!!** 
	* Announcements
		* I will announce readings or modules as they go up in class and through Blackboard
			* I WILL NOT NAG!

---

4. Game Response Journals walkthrough

---

**RULES**

- Make sure you understand that the Course Outline / Syllabus represents a tacit agreement between you and I that things will roll this way. Not a useless document--check it often, obey the rules
- Things will change... I will have all changes in by the end of next week
- Class Lead schedule will be posted on BlackBoard by next week's class (waiting for enrolment to sort itself out
- Questions about the class texts?
- Questions about the course requirements?
- Chrome... please check your browser

Questions?

----

<-----CHECK MOOD---->

4. Introduce Game vs. Play
	1. Game - rules, order, players, a winner / loser, repeated gaming is rewarded (you get better at it)
	2. Play - ad-hoc (no rules), anyone can join at any point and change direction of the group, each individual brings their own take on the play (no rules to consult), no winner / loser (unfolds how it unfolds, where it unfolds), needs no "location" (largely imaginative), no reward for repeated play
	3. Think about different games as learning activities 
		2. different types of games: Poker, Blackjack, Risk, Trivial Pursuit
			1. what do they have in common?
				1. strategy game (Risk, Poker, Scrabble, etc.)
				2. bluff game (Poker, Blackjack, Bridge)
				3. intelligence game (Scrabble, Bridge)
				4. pattern game (Crazy Eights, Cribbage, Bridge, First-Person Shooter)
				5. Error game (Tic-Tac-Toe)
				6. Role-playing Game (shooters, etc.)
		3. Perspective and Theme
			1. Games often built around a central theme or value that does not change despite different strategies
				1. Clue = murder
				2. Monopoly = money
				3. Risk = War
				4. Grand Theft Auto = Crime
			2. Objective is often to work within the theme in a different way in order to win the game
				1. Theme does not change but the attitude toward it does
				2. Easter Eggs - repeated play or collaborative play
		4. How then is writing essays like playing a game?
			1. There are rules, you need to play within them
			2. Rewards creative gameplay -- the ability to move within the rules toward new discovery
			3. Think about how the game discriminates and represents

